---
title: SSH Keys
date: 2026-02-06
categories: [Learning, Guides]
tags: [ssh, github, hetzner, vps, server, security, ports, guides, learning]
---

## What are they?
SSH keys are cryptographic secured identifiers used to connect your local computer to a service. 

Github is a service that uses an SSH key from your computer, as an example. With a key set to your Github account for your local computer, it will allow you to push to your repository remotely from that computer.

## Hetzner
A Hetzner VPS (virtual private server) is another service that uses an SSH key from your computer.

This allows you to SSH into the VPS from your local terminal using this command: `$ ssh root@your_server_ipv4_address` (substitute with your real IPv4 address from Hetzner).

If you have a domain pointing to your server's IP, you can instead just ssh using the domain name like so: `$ ssh example.com -l root`.

Furthermore if you set up a user on your server's Ubuntu distribution, you may ssh in as that user with this command: `$ ssh your_username@example.com` (substitute values with your own). 

Doing this avoids using the root user when you ssh into the server, which has access to all commands, including some potentially destructive ones. Creating and accessing the distribution as a non-root user, guards you from running these commands, which is a safer alternative.

When root access is needed, it can temporarily be granted  by using sudo and providing the password you set when creating the user (assuming you added that user to the sudo group).

## Ports
If you changed the ssh port on your VPS, you will need to specify the port you set when using the ssh command. The default port is 22, e.g. you would run the command like so: `$ ssh your_username@example.come -p 22`.

## Checking and generating keys
To check if you have an Ed25519 algorithm ssh key already generated on your machine, use this terminal command: `$ ls ~/.ssh/id_ed25519.pub`.

If you don't have one, you can generate one with this command: `$ ssh-keygen -t ed25519`.

Press `Enter` when it prompts you for a location to save the key, this will save it to the default local.

Next it will prompt you for a password, enter one if you wish to, otherwise just press `Enter` to continue.

To copy your key use this command: `$ cat ~/.ssh/id_ed25519.pub`.